---
layout: post
title: "Week5"
categories: GSoC
---

## Sunday 30-06-2019

## Saturday 29-06-2019
* Started the day by testing the assembly code step by step using the `single_step` mode in `/sys/kernel/debug/remoteproc/remoteprocN`.
I later realized that it is not the clock cycle that the `single_step` mode is advancing, but it is executing the "assembly instructions" one-by-one. During this realization I made quite a few changes in the code based on these calculations. So I'll be starting again fresh now.
* What I want to accomplish: 

## Friday 28-06-2019
* Was able to generate a PWM output with max frequency approximately 1 MHz (This is still not accurate). The duty cycle output is accurate to 2 decimal places and currently the 8 bit duty cycle input ratio is stored at locations:- 0x00010000 : 0x00010001 in the format N:100. But the problem with this is that due to the instructions, the ratio somehow becomes (N+3)/(100+3), thereby disrupting the duty cycle, and also preventing frequency adjustment. Also if I have to take frequency as input, I'll have to modify the daemon to write more than 8 bits into the PRU memory. 
* `prussd.service` wasn't working on another debian image and 

## Thursday 27-06-2019
* Started a bit late today, will work till late.
* Read about programming the PRU in assembly which will be called by the C program. This is important as it will be easy to calculate the delays for PWM. Each instruction takes 5ns for the PRU to execute as the PRU is 200 MHz.
* I saw Zeekhuge's blinky example which uses asmand tried to run it. Initially it wouldn't compile and give out the error: `cannot open source file "pru_cfg.h"` So I had to modify his Makefile to give proper paths to the `LIBS` and `INCLUDE` variables. The paths for these varaibles can be found in my standard Makefile present in the blinky and pwm example in my repo. This Makefile was initially taken and modified from the PRU Cookbook. 
* For examples using assembly, we will need Zeekhuge's Makefile present in his blinky example. The variables will have to be modified as stated above. Other important paths are: 
PRU_CGT:=/usr/share/ti/cgt-pru
PRU_SUPPORT:=/usr/lib/ti/pru-software-support-package
These were the directories in which `cgt-pru` and `pru-software-support-package` came pre-installed in.
* The daemon-service in my repo is unable to be installed. Previously, it was working properly but now "goes into a failed state". Also looking into this error.

## Wednesday 19-06-2019

## Tuesday 18-06-2019
* 

## Monday 17-06-2019
* There was an error in the mem_write() function in cpp-bindings. It wasn't able to 
