---
layout: post
title: "Week4"
categories: GSoC
---

## Friday 21-06-2019
* For some reason I wasn't being able to change the pinmux settings of the pins today. I had used the `config-pin` utility before to change the pinmux to pruout. But I kept getting the error 
```
Cannot write pinmux file: /sys/devices/platform/ocp/ocp*P9_31_pinmux/state
```
Searched a bit on the internet and realized that I had to uncomment the line 
```
disable_uboot_overlay_video=1
```
in the /boot/uEnv.txt file. Reboot the Beagle board and then the config-pin utility must work with P9_31 now (and any other pins).<br>
For more info refer [this](https://elinux.org/Beagleboard:BeagleBoneBlack_Debian#U-Boot_Disable_on-board_devices) and [this](https://github.com/beagleboard/linux/issues/139).
While solving this error I had booted from the sd card. Making changes in /boot/uEnv.txt file stopped my booting process completely. Thankfully my work wasn't on that sd card. So it is better to try on another sd card while working with uEnv.txt
* Studied about how to implement PWM code.
* Getting a better understanding of how the PRU C firmware code works by going through different examples from github, PRU Cookbook.
* Tried to get the DMA project working but with no luck. Meanwhile I'll add the /dev/mem function to the daemon and later remove it if not required. I still have to figure out how the memory address is to be put in /dev/mem

## Thursday 20-06-2019
* Studied and tried to get the PRU DMA project working. Working on DMA will ultimately benefit because the project documentation can be updated to current kernel versions and I can use the project with my examples. I was able to get the firmware part and the device tree to compile, but couldn't get the module part to work. This is because of the linux kernel version deifferences, mine being 4.14. and his being 4.9.. Detailed walkthrough can be found [here](https://pratimugale.github.io/gsoc/2019/06/21/PRU-DMA.html). Informed the mentors about this and they are looking into it.
* Meanwhile I studied about how I'll implement the PWM example. The DRAM 0 address is 0x0000 for PRU 0. The same DRAM appears at address 0x4A30_0000 as seen from the ARM processor. The PRU_ICSS is of size 512KB memory with Start_address (hex) : 0x4A30_0000 and End_address (hex): 0x4A37_FFFF. This is the PRU-ICSS Instruction/Data/Control Space.
<br> See page 184 of the [AM335x Technical Reference Manual](https://www.ti.com/lit/ug/spruh73p/spruh73p.pdf).
* Need to learn linux patches tomo.

## Wednesday 19-06-2019
* I need to add the memory access today(from ARM). Searched on the internet a bit and found that it is done through "/dev/mem/". However, this method is kind of a "hack" and a potential security hole, so there should be restrictions implemented on what addresses you can read or write. Will probably use the PRU DMA project for this functionality. Will spend the next day learning about this.
* Today's work: [https://github.com/MuneebMohammed/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/2](https://github.com/MuneebMohammed/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/2)
* After the EDMA work, I shall start with the firmware examples starting with PWM as discussed with the mentors today.
Next example would be precise stepper motor control.

## Tuesday 18-06-2019
* I completed the `c-bindings` today and figured out the error I was experiencing yesterday. Pull request: [https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/1](https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/1)
* Since I couldn't write the memory functions last week, I need to get it done now. The daemon does not contain these functions yet, so add these to it and make appropriate changes to cpp-bindings.
* Will be working in 'wip' branch and will submit pull requests from there to better track the changes. 
* Also add config_pin, generate resource table commands?

## Monday 17-06-2019
* Posted the ideas list to the mentors, will get the review tomorrow.
* Meanwhile, I worked on restructuring my C code to use the daemon, so that userspace apps don't need to deal with root permissions. This was a good excercise because C-library was generated and although it's not OOP, I got a better understanding of the required workflow.
* There are sill some errors in the C-code that need to be removed.<br>
C - code: [https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/tree/wip/c-bindings](https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/tree/wip/c-bindings)
