---
layout: post
title: "Week6"
categories: GSoC
---
## Sunday 07-07-2019
So, to pass raw data to PRU from daemon, I had to created a python userspace program that does it first. It can be found here: [https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/blob/master/examples/firmware_examples/example3-pwm/pwm-assembly/userspace_pwm.py](https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/blob/master/examples/firmware_examples/example3-pwm/pwm-assembly/userspace_pwm.py). It sends two integers to the PRU as an array. For this, the rpmsg sram pointer must be a 'uint64_t' variable. The send_msg() function in the python daemon currently passes a string OR one raw integer to the PRU according to the calling cpp function. The calling cpp functions are sendMsg_raw() and sendMsg_string(). For this, the RPMsg firmware must look something like: [this](https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/blob/master/examples/firmware_examples/example3-pwm/pwm-assembly/PRU1/main.c); now having 'uint32_t' as it is receiving one integer at a time <br>

Using the new functions, I then created a cpp-userspace program that sends two integers individually.

Also started Documenting the above process.

PR - [https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/11](https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/11)
I have ordered a stepper motor and its driver and I learned how it works and how to control it by watching videos/docs.

## Saturday 06-07-2019
Today I checked the current state of the project on another Debian Image. There were some errors and missing files that I sorted. Then I checked if a servo motor was working with the PWM example. The example was able to generate proper frequency that the servo works with. Will add a seperate 'tweaking' program to find full left and full right positions of the servo, if possible.

## Friday 05-07-2019
Forgot to add Friday's Blog.
Modified the Makefiles to make it specific to the example; encountered multiple errors while doing so, but it was done. 

## Thursday 04-07-2019
Today I went through the RPMsg docs again and have posted the important points on a different blog. I was able to pass a 4 byte raw integer through the /dev/rpmsg_pru31 device file and write to the SRAM. Then I modified the previously written pwm example to use this method as input instead of /dev/mem. I noticed today that string functions are difficult to implement on the PRU as it runs out of memory. The raw data passed is received in little endian form. Short blog today :(

## Wednesday 03-07-2019
As mentor Abhishek suggested yesterday, my goal for today is to pass a 4 byte raw integer as a message to the PRU and then reform the integer on the firmware side. For this, I first learnt a bit about serialization and how structs are represented as a sequence of bytes and then restored. (I tried functions like ntohs(), htons() but didn't exactly understand how to use it in our case.) The 'payload' is a void pointer and initially I didn't understand how to pass raw integer data as a message. Also void pointers cannot be dereferenced. One more thing is that pointer arithmetic doesn't work in my case as done by Zeekhuge here - [https://github.com/ZeekHuge/BeagleScope/blob/0afb7d98df2eb18dca3ffd3a943b3100a24191b6/firmware/main_pru0.c#L293](https://github.com/ZeekHuge/BeagleScope/blob/0afb7d98df2eb18dca3ffd3a943b3100a24191b6/firmware/main_pru0.c#L293). Also looking into this on the side.

## Tuesday 02-07-2019
Today's main task is to completely understand RPMsg, integrate it with the PWM example and develop a general purpose program that uses RPMsg to transfer data to the PRU SRAM, DRAM.

I was able to create pass a "hexadecimal" as a string to the character device "rpmsg_pru31" The firmware side code converts the received data from its ASCII values to the original hexadecimal digits. This hexadecimal number is then converted into an 8-bit "uint8_t" integer and written into the PRU local memory (SRAM in this case) -> [https://gist.github.com/pratimugale/d37c76b60e05fc62c6cae9e655e32ed8](https://gist.github.com/pratimugale/d37c76b60e05fc62c6cae9e655e32ed8)
<br>

One thing I observed is that once the RPMsg firmware that is writing to the PRU SRAM is working; reading the same location (or any other )from "/dev/mem" gives the correct value **but it also causes that PRU to STOP its execution** The PRU needs to be started again to write to the memory next time. The dmesg logs for this are mentioned below <br>

### dmesg logs: 
**After starting PRU2 (the PRU running RPMsg code)**
```
[12057.998065] remoteproc remoteproc2: powering up 4a338000.pru
[12058.001277] remoteproc remoteproc2: Booting fw image am335x-pru1-fw, size 74344
[12058.004691] pruss 4a300000.pruss: configured system_events[63-0] = 0x00000000.000c0000
[12058.004714] pruss 4a300000.pruss: configured intr_channels = 0x0000000a host_intr = 0x0000000a
[12058.013350] virtio_rpmsg_bus virtio0: creating channel rpmsg-pru addr 0x1f
[12058.014726] rpmsg_pru virtio0.rpmsg-pru.-1.31: new rpmsg_pru device: /dev/rpmsg_pru31
[12058.015529] virtio_rpmsg_bus virtio0: rpmsg host is online
[12058.015696] remoteproc remoteproc2: registered virtio0 (type 7)
[12058.015706] remoteproc remoteproc2: remote processor 4a338000.pru is now up
```
**After echoing a value into the rpmsg_pru31, no change takes place in dmesg logs**

**After reading the same memory location via /dev/mem: **
```
[12058.015696] remoteproc remoteproc2: registered virtio0 (type 7)
[12058.015706] remoteproc remoteproc2: remote processor 4a338000.pru is now up
[12381.762744] pruss 4a300000.pruss: unconfigured system_events[63-0] = 0x00000000.000c0000
[12381.762765] pruss 4a300000.pruss: unconfigured host_intr = 0x0000000a
[12381.762804] remoteproc remoteproc2: stopped remote processor 4a338000.pru
[12381.812398] remoteproc remoteproc1: powering up 4a334000.pru
[12381.812712] remoteproc remoteproc1: Booting fw image am335x-pru0-fw, size 33476
[12381.812747] remoteproc remoteproc1: remote processor 4a334000.pru is now up
```
and since the PRU (2nd one in this case - 4a338000.pru) is stopped, the rpmsg_pru31 character device file is also deleted.

## Monday 01-07-2019

Why is PWM on PRU beneficial? 
There is hardware PWM support available on the BBB
that can be accessed directly from Linux user space. However, sysfs is slow
at adjusting the duty cycle, and it is prone to the same type of nonpreemptive latency issues as regular GPIOs.
PWM has many applications, such as motor and lighting control, and the PRU can provide a very high frequency PWM.
As a second example, we can use PWM for precise control of servo/stepper motors.
I also plan to use PWM with PRU to output a sine wave signal, by rapidly changing the duty cycle of a high‐frequency switched digital output cyclically as a function of time. For this, we can use the C-program to use mathematical functions to generate sine values which can be written into the PRU SRAM/DRAM. The PRU ASSEMBLY PROGRAM will read these duty cycle values from the memory and produce the output on the reuired GPIO pin.

After spending the weekend reading different PRU projects and trying different PWM variations, I have come up with a good example that gives a pretty accurate result. To set the PWM frequency from 1MHz to 1 Hz, I will need 4 bytes maximum(actually 27 bits) to store the total PWM cycles. (For 1MHz, 200 PRU cycles ((100 iterations) are needed; so for 1Hz, 200,000,000 total (PRU) cycles will be needed). So, memory location 0x00010000 to 0x00010003 will store (ON cycles)/2) and 0x00010005 to 0x00010008 will store ((maximum cycles)/2).<br>

For doing this, I will have to modify the mem_read(), mem_write() functions to handling 4 bytes of data at a time. Though this is a slow process of transferring data, it is helpful for experimenting and one time data transfer. This, ideally needs to be done using RPMsg.

**One important thing that I realized today is that the instruction `LBBO &R1, R10, 0, 4` stores the byte-wise data BACKWARDS into the register R1** It took me a while to realize this after getting some very wierd results.(The frequency of PWM became extremely low). <br>
So, what happens is: Suppose<br>
(0x00010000) -> 0xA5 <br>
(0x00010001) -> 0x31 <br>
(0x00010002) -> 0x54 <br>
(0x00010003) -> 0xFF <br>
Now if we do `LDI R10, 0x00010000` and `LBBO &R1, R10, 0, 4`. LBBO will copy 4 bytes of data into R1.<br>
But the value of R1 will be -> FF5431A5 and **NOT** A53154FF. 

Findings I have made on the `pwm-assembly` example in my repo:
* Using the above caculation, the period of PWM will be 1s if <br>
  (0x00010000) -> 0x80 <br>
  (0x00010001) -> 0xF0 <br>
  (0x00010002) -> 0xFA <br>
  (0x00010003) -> 0x02 <br>
  (0x00010005) -> 0x00 <br>
  (0x00010006) -> 0xE1 <br>
  (0x00010007) -> 0xF5 <br>
  (0x00010008) -> 0x05 <br>
  i.e. For this example, the ON_Cycles input is 50,000,000 and Total_Cycles = 100,000,000<br>
  These values are calculated by the userspace program that takes `frequency` and `duty cycle` as input. <br>
  100,000,000 * 2 = 200,000,000 (2 instructions per on/off loop) <br>
  200,000,000 * 5ns per step = 2 * 10^8 * 5 * 10^-9 seconds = 1 second time period. <br> 

* Using the `single_step` mode for frequency 1MHz 
  * 50% Duty Cycle: ie input ON_Cycles = 50 iterations (actually 50 * 2 PRU Cycles) and Total_Cycles = 100 iterations (200 PRU Cycles)<br>
    The GPIO is **HIGH** for: **104 steps** <br>
    THE GPIO is **LOW**  for: **103 steps** <br>
    Therefore; output DC = (104/207) * 100 % <br>
    I am still trying to reduce the steps to 100 so that the output frequency is exactly 1MHz. But while doing so, any changes made to the assembly program add additional unwanted steps further disrupting the DC or frequency.
    GPIO output voltage: 3.23V <br>
    50% DC GPIO voltage: 1.61V <br>
  * 25% Duty Cycle: 
    The GPIO is **HIGH** for: **54 steps**<br>
    THE GPIO is **LOW**  for: **153 steps**<br>
    GPIO output voltage: 3.23V<br>
    25% DC GPIO voltage: 0.81V<br>
  
  Conclusion: Total Cycles are 7 more than required. Removing even one NOP instruction in `sample_start` somehow further reduces the output Duty Cycle. For now I think that these additional steps are due to looping overhead. <br>
  `maximum output frequency` can further be increased but at the expense of Duty Cycle accuracy. For 1Mhz frequency the DC is accurate to 2 decimal places.
  I do not have an oscilloscope at the moment so I need to go to college to check it. But for 1Hz, the GPIO is ON for exactly 60 times in one minute.
