---
layout: post
title: "Week2"
categories: GSoC
---
## Accomplishments
* Added some more functions: make(), load_firmware() <br>
* Added an RPMsg example and Documented the whole process of using RPMsg - [https://github.com/pratimugale/pruss-api/blob/master/examples/example2-rpmsg/README.md](https://github.com/pratimugale/pruss-api/blob/master/examples/example2-rpmsg/README.md) <br>
* Started Documenting Usage of the functions. <br>Will be working in the `wip` branch (Work In Progress) of the project repository before submmitting a final pull request of the task completed.<br>
* Modified modprobe() function to load rpmsg, added TI's lab 5 as an example and creating a userspace.c program for it that will use the API functions.

## Issues Resolved
Finally got RPMsg to Work.
Some issues I was facing: 
* **"main.c", line 72: error #20: identifier "RPMSG_MESSAGE_SIZE" is undefined** - Don't know why but the variable `RPMSG_MESSAGE_SIZE` was never declared, so I just manually set it to 50 for the time being (I need to find what the appropriate value is and why is it not defined - is it implicitly defined in the compiler?)
* The `/dev/rpmsg31` character device file was not being created before: Abhishek's answer solved that error: https://groups.google.com/d/msg/beagleboard/4P9NdglojBo/qqizuGCZAQAJ<br>
One extra step: `$ echo am335x-pru0-fw | sudo tee firmware` had to be followed.
* Also I wasn't running the `./a.out` script as superuser before which caused the `Failed to open \dev\rpmsg31` error.

## ToDo
Distro Packaging Rules, `checkinstall` <br>
Get started with AND add RPMsg examples. <br>
Travis CI?
Modify rmmod function.
Add userspace program for TI's example

## Current Blockers
Solved the RPMsg Blocker :)<br>

## Notes
Possible states of a remote processor: 
* "offline"
* "suspended"
* "running"
* "crashed"
* "invalid"

## SATURDAY - 08/06/2019
* Added TI's example (Need to find and add its license).
* Modified modprobe() function and added two smaller functions for it - modprobe_pru_rproc() and modprobe_rpmsg_pru().
* Need to add other RPMsg functions.
* Add userspace program for TI's example using API functions.
