---
layout: post
title: "PRU-DMA, Memory Map"
categories: GSoC
---
---------
## Aim: 
---------
Instead of using /dev/mem, I was thinking of using a generalized driver as written in PRU-DMA project and then creating a sysfs interface to read/write from memory. Then I can add the memory functions to the python daemon service.<br>

-------
<br>
The first example I'm going to start with is the PWM example. The inputs can be written to the shared memory via the sysfs entries for the dma driver. Then the PRUs can read the shared memory and change the ouput accordingly.<br>

So I'll have to get the PRU DMA project up and running. This seems like a little difficult task for me as I've not understood how the project exactly works. I'll track all my progress regarding DMA here.<br>

* Clone the Project - [README](https://github.com/maciejjo/beaglebone-pru-dma/blob/master/Documentation/README.md)
* `export PRU_CGT=/usr/share/ti/cgt-pru`
* `wget https://git.ti.com/pru-software-support-package/pru-software-support-package/archive-tarball/v5.1.0` - He gives this step. However I used my pru-software-support-package. `export PRU_SSP=~/pru-software-support-package`(Path to pru-software-support-package).
* To use PRU DMA, PRU software package must be patched with a patch supplied in pru_dma repository. To apply it go to PRU_SSP directory and issue following: `$ patch -p1 < ${PATH_TO_PRU_DMA_REPO}/pru-swpkg-patch/0001-Add-PRU-DMA-custom-resource-to-resource-table.patch`
<!-- For me: $ patch -p1 < ~/work/beaglebone-pru-dma/pru-swpkg-patch/0001-Add-PRU-DMA-custom-resource-to-resource-table.patch -->
* Then, go to `/firmware/lib/pru_dma_lib` directory and build the library by issuing 'make' command. After successful build, library can be used in PRU applications.
### Set-up on PRU Firmware side is now done

### Set-up on kernel module side - patching kernel: 
* Followed his instructions, but got error for current kernel while installing the patch.
* So I changed the branch to 4.9.36-ti-r46
* No errors but warnings come up (squelched whitespace errors)
* Then running `./build_deb.sh` gives Failed dependency check error.<br> Do `sudo apt-get update` & `sudo apt-get install fakeroot lsb-release man-db gettext`<br>
* Run `./build_deb.sh` again.

--------
## About the PRU Memory Region
--------
The PRU-ICSS comprises various distinct addressable regions that are mapped to both a local and global memory map. 
The local memory maps are maps with respect to the PRU core point of view. 
The global memory maps are maps with respect to the Host point of view, but can also be accessed by the PRUICSS.

i.e. local is with respect to PRU0, PRU1 individually; global is w.r.t the entire PRU SubSystem 

### _Local_ Instruction Memory Map
Each PRU core has a dedicated 8KB of Instruction Memory which needs to be initialized by a Host processor before the PRU executes instructions. 
This region is only accessible to masters via the interface/ OCP slave port when the PRU is not running.
`Local Instruction Memory Map`:

| Start Address | PRU0 | PRU1 |
|---------------|------|------|
| 0x0000_0000 | 8KB IRAM | 8KB IRAM | 

Note that these two memory maps are implemented inside the PRU-ICSS and are local to the components of the PRU-ICSS.
<br>
### _Local_ Data Memory Map:
Allows each PRU core to access the PRU-ICSS addressable regions and the external host’s memory map.
By default, memory addresses between 0x0000_0000 – 0x0007_FFFF will correspond to the PRU-ICSS local address. To access an address
between 0x0000_0000–0x0007_FFFF of the external Host map, the address offset of –0x0008_0000 feature is enabled through the PMAO register of the PRU-ICSS CFG register space.


***Data RAM0 is intended to be the primary data memory for PRU0, as is Data RAM1 for PRU1. However, both PRU cores can
access Data RAM0 and Data RAM1 to pass information between PRUs. Each PRU core accesses their intended Data RAM at
address 0x0000_0000 and the other Data RAM at address 0x0000_2000.***

|Start Address |PRU0 |PRU1 |
|--------------|-----|-----|
|0x0000_0000 |Data 8KB RAM 0| Data 8KB RAM 1|
|0x0000_2000 |Data 8KB RAM 1| Data 8KB RAM 0|
|0x0001_0000 |Shared Data 12KB RAM 2| Shared Data 12KB RAM 2|
|0x0002_0000 |INTC |INTC|
|0x0002_2000 |PRU0 Control |PRU0 Control|
|0x0002_2400 |Reserved |Reserved|
|0x0002_4000 |PRU1 Control |PRU1 Control|
|0x0002_4400 |Reserved |Reserved|
|0x0002_6000 |CFG |CFG|
|0x0002_8000 |UART 0 |UART 0|
|0x0002_A000 |Reserved |Reserved|
|0x0002_C000 |Reserved |Reserved|
|0x0002_E000 |IEP |IEP|
|0x0003_0000 |eCAP 0 |eCAP 0|
|0x0003_2000 |MII_RT_CFG |MII_RT_CFG|
|0x0003_2400 |MII_MDIO |MII_MDIO|
|0x0003_4000 |Reserved |Reserved|
|0x0003_8000 |Reserved |Reserved|
|0x0004_0000 |Reserved |Reserved|
|0x0008_0000 |System OCP_HP0 |System OCP_HP1|

### _Global_ Memory Map
The global view of the PRU-ICSS internal memories and control ports is shown in the next Table. The offset addresses of each region are implemented inside the PRU-ICSS but the global device memory mapping places the PRU-ICSS slave port in the address range shown in the external Host top-level memory map.
The global memory map is with respect to the Host point of view, but it can also be accessed by the PRUICSS. Note that PRU0 and PRU1 can use either the local or global addresses to access their internal memories, but using the local addresses will provide access time several cycles faster than using the global addresses. This is because when accessing via the global address the access needs to be routed through the switch fabric outside PRU-ICSS and back in through the PRU-ICSS slave port.
Each of the PRUs can access the rest of the device memory (including memory mapped peripheral and configuration registers) using the global memory space addresses.

|Offset Address |PRU-ICSS |
|---------------|---------|
|0x0000_0000 |Data 8KB RAM 0|
|0x0000_2000 |Data 8KB RAM 1|
|0x0001_0000 |Shared Data 12KB RAM 2|
|0x0002_0000 |INTC|
|0x0002_2000 |PRU0 Control|
|0x0002_2400 |PRU0 Debug|
|0x0002_4000 |PRU1 Control|
|0x0002_4400 |PRU1 Debug|
|0x0002_6000 |CFG|
|0x0002_8000 |UART 0|
|0x0002_A000 |Reserved|
|0x0002_C000 |Reserved|
|0x0002_E000 |IEP|
|0x0003_0000 |eCAP 0|
|0x0003_2000 |MII_RT_CFG|
|0x0003_2400 |MII_MDIO|
|0x0003_4000 |PRU0 8KB IRAM|
|0x0003_8000 |PRU1 8KB IRAM|
|0x0004_0000 |Reserved|

### The PRU Read Write Latencies can be found [here](http://processors.wiki.ti.com/index.php/AM335x_PRU_Read_Latencies)
