---
layout: post
title: "Week7"
categories: GSoC
---
## Fri, Sat, Sunday
Worked solely on stepper motors example. Got everything soldered up, learnt how to use the EasyDriver, all its functionalities. Learnt and experimented with the motor- when it completes a full rotation in microstepping modes, how I'll decide the RPM, etc. Wrote the firmware for generating pulses/steps for rotating the motor. It is kind of a modified version of pwm which stops after a precise number of pulses have been sent. Checked this firmware with the PRU and it is working properly. While testing, I found that the maximum pulse frequency which the stepper can keep up with is around 5600 Hz when the Driver is set at `eighth` step microstepping(MS1, MS2 high). I found that the maximum frequency at which the stepper motor can operate decreases as the we increase the stepping to `quarter`, `half` or `full` step modes. The torque is the least for eighth step mode.<br>

I did not have a proper power supply in the beginning which caused some delay. Also, the stepper motor I ordered is of a higher A/phase than the EasyDriver is rated. I don't know how this happened while ordering. I have now ordered a proper driver for the motor. But the EasyDriver is also working well at the moment with the motor with my power supply of 2A.
The EasyDriver outputs 750mA/phase maximum current while the torque produced by the motor is maximum at 1.2A/phase. I could still operate the motor at high speeds.

I started creating a driver library in which I'll define a class that handles all the pX.sendMsg_raw() and other functions. What I don't understand right now is should the GPIO functions be handled by the ARM or the PRU - because all other work is being done by the PRU. The GPIO functions would be to control the dirction, microstepping and to put the motor to sleep.

## Thursday 11-07-2019
Today I completed the multichannel PWM example with RPMsg. <br>
Updated the c-bindings to the latest state of the cpp-bindings.<br>

I also watched videos about controlling stepper motors, don't want to risk damaging the BBB, motor or the driver. Also learnt the principle of how they work.

TODOs at this point: 
- Next I'll be working on making a firmware example for precise control of stepper motor.
- Check if multithreading has been implemented in the Daemon and if its working properly.
- How to pass a message buffer of more than 512 Bytes at a time using RPMsg. From what I read about this, the Resource Table needs to be modified on the firmware side and a driver modification in required on the ARM side. This would probably be required for waveform generation or any other application requiring transfer of large amount of data. If possible, add a seperate example for demonstrating how to do this.
- Is the eCAP module or are the clock timers supposed to be used for pwm generation. Right now I'm using the principle that each instruction takes 5ns to execute.
- Complete the waveform generation example.
- Add function to receive messages on the RPMsg channel in raw form the same way as it was done for sending raw messages.
- Debian Packaging of the project.

For multichannel PWM, multiple pins can also be set at a time, I'm thinking of using this to further increase the accuracy.
[https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/13](https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/13)

Need to go out today evening, so I'll start with the stepper motor example as the first thing tomorrow morning; the EasyDriver pins also need to be soldered to it.<br>
Till then I'm trying to max out the size of RPMsg buffer.

## Wednesday 10-07-2019
Didn't write the blog today, made a couple of demonstration videos: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GTZwvY6jkaI](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GTZwvY6jkaI). Will add the second video soon.

## Tuesday 09-07-2019
Started by reading about software pwms. The terms used sounded somewhat confusing at first. [http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/AppNotes/Atmel-8020-Low-Jitter-Multi-Channel-Software-PWM_ApplicationNote_AVR136.pdf](http://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/en/AppNotes/Atmel-8020-Low-Jitter-Multi-Channel-Software-PWM_ApplicationNote_AVR136.pdf) This helped in understanding what had to be done. Most of the examples, however were in C instead of assembly. For easy calulation of frequency, I will be developing the example in assembly.<br>
Pull Request for basic PWM multichannel example:
[https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/12](https://github.com/pratimugale/PRUSS-Bindings/pull/12)

## Monday 08-07-2019
The Documentation and communication scheme was added in the example3. The stepper motor should arrive tomorrow according to FedEx. Till then I'm working on analog wave generation starting with sine wave. I don't know how to pass more than 512KB using RPMsg, supposedly the resource table has to be modified. Will update about this at the end of the day.
